# gene disease database

Abstract
Baylor hospital aims to create a central database where doctors, researchers, and general 
public can access information related to patients, disease and related genetic information. 
The report contains the detailed description of the proposed gene disease database. 
It is composed of product description, requirements, specifications, and test plans. 
The database will be created using Microsoft SQL and a web application will be created 
using ASP.NET framework for user interaction with the database. The database contains all 
the common data manipulation features such as add, delete, update, and view. Specifically, 
database provides different views according to the type of user which are general public,
 hospital employee, doctor, and biomedical researchers. Additionally, the database will 
 maintain a user accounts with various level of access privilege using which information 
 related to disease and genes can be accessed.
 
Introduction
Due to the recent developments in computing technology and biomedical sciences, 
there is an increasing amount of data generated in the field of medicine. There is a
 need for an efficient database system where authorized people can access required 
 information to accelerate their medical diagnosis or research on disease biology. 
 In this project, small to medium sized database will be designed where information 
 about different genes, their relationship with different disease, and patient information 
 and medicines will be stored. The user will be able to search different diseases 
 associate to single gene or vice versa, and many other information retrieval cases. 
 The record for the database will be imported from different government agencies such 
 as National Institute of Health, Human Genome Project, medical publications and 
 drug databases. Currently, user has to go to different sites to collect the data on 
 genomics, clinical and drugs. Here, we will design a database where all aspects of 
 disease biology such as biomedical (genes, homolog species, disease pathway, proteins,..), 
 clinical (drugs, symptoms,..) and social( deaths, population,..) will be combined in a 
 relationship model. In summary, this project will take an organized effort to group 
 dispersed information related to various diseases and associated genes.
 
Product Description
The database will be on the disease information association with patient information 
along with biomedical research information produced in the Baylor Hospital and Research 
Institute. The database will store current information generated by two different 
departments- clinical and biomedical research department in the institution and made 
it available to share each other information. The privilege for accessing data depends 
on the user associated with each department. The user in biomedical research department 
can modify biological data such as Gene, DNA, RNA, Protein, Pathway, and can only view 
other data. Similarly, user in hospital such as Doctor and other health professional 
can modify clinical data such as Disease and Patient Record. There is also a public 
viewing access where public can access the database using the hospitals website and 
view Disease and Gene relationship data. The technical aspects of database such as network, 
server, installation etc. are done by Information Technology department.

Requirements

Domain

The database is for the Baylor Hospital and Research Institute to store and share 
clinical and biomedical research information. Currently, hospital had two separate 
databases each for clinical information such as disease, patient record, and another 
for gene and biological information. The main aim of this project is to build a single 
database which combines two different databases so that both doctors in the hospital 
and researchers in the research institute can view each other’s information and make 
progress in their clinical and research endeavors. The client representative: Baylor Hospital 
and Research Institute.